---
layout: default
title: NaN
permalink: /2007/10/nan.html
redirect_from: "/2007/10/nan.html"
date: Wed Oct 24 19:00:00 IST 2007
sharingURL: http://blog.sangupta.com/2007/10/nan.html
tags: interview-questions java
---
I have been lately involved a lot with the recruitment process for my current employer. It has in fact provided me a good platform to learn and hone my skills to the maximum. Anyways, that is not a point of discussion for now.
<br>
<br>In my role as an interviewer, I come across many candidates who, when asked, would rate them very highly on Core Java skills. It is not as if a person cannot be very strong with core computing skills, but it is understanding of basic concepts of computing. Take this: One of my favorite startup questions in such a scenario is,
<br>
<br>What would be the result of compilation/execution of the following code snippet?
<br>
<pre class="brush: java">public class NaN {<br><br>    public static void main(String[] args) {<br>        double d = 2.0 / 0.0;<br>        System.out.println(d);<br>    }<br>}<br></pre>What's the answer: The code will not compile or will it throw a DivideByZero error? Both are wrong. The code compiles fine and the output is,
<br>
<pre name="code">Infinity<br></pre>Let's check another code snippet,
<br>
<pre class="brush: java">public class NaN {<br><br>    public static void main(String[] args) {<br>        double d = 0.0 / 0.0;<br>        System.out.println(d);<br>    }<br>}<br></pre>The output in this case is,
<br>
<blockquote>
    <pre>NaN<br></pre>
</blockquote>Surprising! Pick up any JAVA book and the first thing they explain is the concept of NaN, yet, still most of us don't remember it after a few months.
<br>
<br>NaN as defined by 
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NaN">Wikipedia</a>, is a value or symbol that is usually produced as the result of an operation on invalid input operands, especially in floating-point calculations.
<br>
<br>Time to revise the concepts :)
