---
layout: post
title: New Theme!
permalink: /tech/new-theme.html
redirect_from: "/2007/10/new-theme.html"
date: Wed Oct 24 22:20:00 IST 2007
sharingURL: http://blog.sangupta.com/2007/10/new-theme.html
tags: blogger just-like-that my-projects
---

I am really glad to say that I have updated the theme, finally! It had been long 
since I had been planning to change the theme, and today it has arrived. I had 
earlier zeroed in on 
<a href="http://azcarya.blogspot.com/2007/09/new-theme-soon-really-soon.html" title="Foliage In XML">Foliage</a>
, but due to certain thoughts while restructuring my blogs, I wanted a cleaner 
and a wider template, that had a white background. Thoughts - yes, I have given a 
new meaning to Azcarya - a memoir of myself playing with the technology. It would 
now have lots of code snippets, and hence the white background.

I took me the whole weekend to design the theme, particularly moving the widgets 
to hidden popups, and still remaining the Blogger's functionality. The theme consists of a 
width-free layout, completely CSS driven, and lots of AJAX snippets. All the widgets have 
been laid out at the top, and now open in a new popup window with the pleasing fade-in 
effect. Wanna check it out, 

    <a href="javascript:void(0);" onclick="'$(">click here</a> to move to top, and check the widgets.

If you like the theme, or you have any suggestions to improve upon, please let me know.

Update: 11 Oct 2007
-------------------

Just added code syntax highlighting using the 
<a href="http://code.google.com/p/syntaxhighlighter" title="Syntax Highlighter">Syntax Highlighter</a>. 
A very fast and efficient way for client side rendering. The power of the script can be 
imagined that even Yahoo uses it on its official site. The best way for client side rendering.

An example of classic HELLO WORLD!

```
public class Hello {

    public static void main(String args[]) {
        System.out.println("Hello World!");
    }

}
```

I have incorporated almost all features I had originally planned. Hurray! The theme code will come soon.

Update: 24 Oct 2007
-------------------

Just released the initial version of the theme at 
<a href="http://azcarya.googlecode.com" title="Azcarya Google Code Repository">Azcarya Repository</a>. 

Also, fixed some minor issues.
