---
layout: post
title: Case-sensitivity in Struts
permalink: /tech/case-sensitivity-in-struts.html
redirect_from: "/2007/11/case-sensitivity-in-struts.html"
date: Thu Nov 01 10:00:00 IST 2007
sharingURL: http://blog.sangupta.com/2007/11/case-sensitivity-in-struts.html
tags: coding-techniques java
---

While cleaning up my Thunderbird today, I came across this issue which kept me (and my team) on toes for a few days. It is an old issue (almost an year now) which I pen down due to some fond memories. The problem is related to J2EE Web Application project. The project background is not needed to relate to the problem.
<br>
<br>The application was using Struts 1.1 and was deployed in Weblogic 8.1 SP1. The problem occurred while I was deploying my WAR (in the exploded form) after modification of struts-config.xml, and not when I was deploying the complete WAR as a whole. I had used many struts validators and parsers, but none reported the error. The exception received was,
<br>
<blockquote>
    <pre>&lt;Oct 10, 2006 3:51:04 PM GMT+05:30&gt; &lt;Error&gt; &lt;HTTP&gt; &lt;BEA-101216&gt; &lt;Servlet:"action" failed to preload on startup in Web application: "myApp".<br>javax.servlet.UnavailableException: Parsing error processing resource path<br>at org.apache.struts.action.ActionServlet.handleConfigException(ActionServlet.java:1035)<br>at org.apache.struts.action.ActionServlet.parseModuleConfigFile(ActionServlet.java:1014)<br>at org.apache.struts.action.ActionServlet.initModuleConfig(ActionServlet.java:955)<br>at org.apache.struts.action.ActionServlet.init(ActionServlet.java:470)<br>at javax.servlet.GenericServlet.init(GenericServlet.java:258)<br>at com.myapp.controller.servlet.MyFrontControllerServlet.init(MyFrontControllerServlet.java:91)<br>at weblogic.servlet.internal.ServletStubImpl$ServletInitAction.run(ServletStubImpl.java:1070)<br>at weblogic.security.acl.internal.AuthenticatedSubject.doAs(AuthenticatedSubject.java:317)<br>at weblogic.security.service.SecurityManager.runAs(SecurityManager.java:118)<br>at weblogic.servlet.internal.ServletStubImpl.createServlet(ServletStubImpl.java:893)<br>at weblogic.servlet.internal.ServletStubImpl.createInstances(ServletStubImpl.java:842)<br>at weblogic.servlet.internal.ServletStubImpl.prepareServlet(ServletStubImpl.java:782)<br>at weblogic.servlet.internal.WebAppServletContext.preloadServlet(WebAppServletContext.java:3236)<br>at weblogic.servlet.internal.WebAppServletContext.preloadServlets(WebAppServletContext.java:3181)<br>at weblogic.servlet.internal.WebAppServletContext.preloadResources(WebAppServletContext.java:3154)<br>at weblogic.servlet.internal.WebAppServletContext.setStarted(WebAppServletContext.java:5637)<br>at weblogic.servlet.internal.WebAppModule.start(WebAppModule.java:866)<br>at weblogic.j2ee.J2EEApplicationContainer.start(J2EEApplicationContainer.java:2017)<br>at weblogic.j2ee.J2EEApplicationContainer.activate(J2EEApplicationContainer.java:2058)<br>at weblogic.management.deploy.slave.SlaveDeployer$ComponentActivateTask.activateContainer(SlaveDeployer.java:2624)<br>at weblogic.management.deploy.slave.SlaveDeployer$ActivateTask.doCommit(SlaveDeployer.java:2547)<br>at weblogic.management.deploy.slave.SlaveDeployer$Task.commit(SlaveDeployer.java:2349)<br>at weblogic.management.deploy.slave.SlaveDeployer$Task.checkAutoCommit(SlaveDeployer.java:2431)<br>at weblogic.management.deploy.slave.SlaveDeployer$Task.prepare(SlaveDeployer.java:2343)<br>at weblogic.management.deploy.slave.SlaveDeployer$ActivateTask.prepare(SlaveDeployer.java:2511)<br>at weblogic.management.deploy.slave.SlaveDeployer.processPrepareTask(SlaveDeployer.java:833)<br>at weblogic.management.deploy.slave.SlaveDeployer.prepareDelta(SlaveDeployer.java:542)<br>at weblogic.management.deploy.slave.SlaveDeployer.prepareUpdate(SlaveDeployer.java:500)<br>at weblogic.drs.internal.SlaveCallbackHandler$1.execute(SlaveCallbackHandler.java:25)<br>at weblogic.kernel.ExecuteThread.execute(ExecuteThread.java:197)<br>at weblogic.kernel.ExecuteThread.run(ExecuteThread.java:170)<br>&gt;</pre>
</blockquote>A lot of discussions over the validity of XML and it being well formed happened. A few interesting notes worth remembering were,
<br>
<ul>
    <li>Maybe some kind of file-locking occurs? How do you make a deploy? Just<br>copy war's content into app's directory? Maybe this is the case, weblogic keeps reference to old struts-config.xml or something like that.<br><br>When deploying as a war file, weblogic just removes old directory,<br>creates a new one and no file-locking occurs.</li>
    <li>guessing that there is a problem with the XML parser.<br>For example (warning: this is a shot in the dark) I had problems with Java 1.4.x because it uses the "crimson" parser, that is very buggy. Once I used the Xerces parser everything went fine...</li>
</ul>The root cause of the problem was the case-sensitive declaration of the entries in a struts-config.xml file. There was a letter in the name of the folder misspelt in upper case. The compilation of class did not fail being a Windows machine, and the JDK compiler could not distinguish the mismatch in package name and the tree structure. But when JVM tried to load the class, it failed.
<br>
<br>
<b>If the package name does not match the directory structure (in case) then the above error is thrown.</b> I am still confused as to why Weblogic throws it as a parsing error?
<br>
<br>You can follow the actual conversation on the struts-user mailing group, or its web interface 
<a href="http://servlets.com/archive/servlet/ReadMsg?msgId=674536&amp;listName=struts-user">here</a>.
