---
layout: post
title: Evenstar!
permalink: /tech/evenstar.html
redirect_from: "/2009/11/evenstar.html"
date: Wed Nov 25 17:32:00 IST 2009
sharingURL: http://blog.sangupta.com/2009/11/evenstar.html
tags: evenstar my-projects
---

Many of you who would be reading this post of mine would have some own 
blogging experience. Many amongst them would be avid bloggers. Some have 
their own personal blogs, where in, they put down everything that goes in 
through their hearts and not the mind. Few like me put in everything for 
we have no mind. And all of us has friends. Now, What do such mindless blogs 
and sage friends have in common?

Well, sometimes our friends become our biggest foes. Sometimes, when their 
intelligence, loaded with sanity, soaked in logic, with a fragrance of reason, 
decorates our blog as a token of their liking, the blog owner's insanity turns 
insane. At times it leads to defeat the sole purpose of the post and turns off 
the very visitors whom you adore. To add appreciation to glory, if you try some 
legal ways (read as, settings in your favorite blog engine), these sage start 
expressing their wisdom vocally than in writing; at this point you only wish 
to be reborn.

With such instances most of us wish if there was a way to bury such friends 
in the deep deserts of North Pole. Some turn to hibernate in the cool comfort 
of the Sahara Desert. Well, I tried doing both and failed. And now, the only 
thought up my mind is,

> May it be an evening star,
> Shines down upon you,
> May it be when darkness falls,
> Your heart will be true,
> You walk a lonely road,
> Oh! How far you are from home! (Enya)

Being just another good for nothing person, I am using the power of primary 
language of expression to do believe in the above, waiting for the `evenstar` to 
shine down upon me soon! Till time, if I could remain as sane as my thoughts above, 
there would be more in here soon. Keep Watching the space!

`PS:` None-the-less, if anyone has suggestions on how to bury in the North Pole, please 
leave your comments, which would be highly appreciated and acknowledged with due respect. 
For those whose sanity is troubling them find an answer as to why I chose North pole, here 
is my insanity packaged in a line; I live in the northern hemisphere, and I don't want 
my friends to suffer (more) when I drag them to the pole.
